docs(bodiless-documentation): Add Contentful Site Build Guide (#437)
johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS: packages/bodiless-documentation/doc/Development/Guides/BuildingSites/BuildingComponents/BuildingContentful.md

# Building Contentful Components

While building sites, there often are use cases where the same content is
re-used between pages or possibly it could be a component you want to share with
another site. 

A contentful component allows you to specify the default content of a component,
so when it is placed on a site, the data is pre-populated.

Once a contentful component is placed, the content still be can edited by the
site editor as needed. In addition, if a site editor wants to return back to
original content, they can restore the default content at the individual
component level via a reset button in the context menu.

As a site builder, if you see a component that is often reused
through the site, say a tout on each article, it can be helpful to build this
component as contentful tout and then a site editor can quickly choose this
component and skip entering the data for it.

## Developing a Contentful Component

Bodiless provides an API that allows you to extend your component and make it
contentful component.

> * `withDefaultContent` will extend your component to allow default data to be passed as prop.

Author: addressed

* `withResetButton` will add a context menu icon, Reset, to the component that
  allows the site editor to reset data back to the default content. If your
  components consists of a composition of individual components, then the

>   `withResetButton` should be added to each individual components.

Reviewer: just to be on the same page
if we want to have component by component revert (reverting of tout image reverts only tout image),
but if there is a use case (not sure there is) to revert all components (reverting of tout image reverts all tout components) then it is sufficient to add withResetButton only once

Author: addressed
I did test and it worked.

### Defining a Contentful Component that consists of single component
The following is example of defining a Contentful Image:

e.g.
```
type Data = {
  src: string;
  alt: string;
};

// Allows to set default content for image based component.
const asContentfulImage = (nodeContent: Partial<Data>) => (nodeKey: string) => flowRight(
  withDefaultContent({
    [nodeKey]: nodeContent,
  }),
  asEditableImage(nodeKey),
  withResetButton(nodeKey),
);
```

#### Defining the data of the Contentful Component

Create a ts file to define the data for the component and within match the data
structure for the component, in this case it is for the image component. 

e.g.

The contents of `src/components/Contentful/Image/index1.ts`:
```
import Image from './contentful1.png';

export default {
  src: Image,
  alt: "contentful 1",
};
```

> the image would be stored within  `src/components/Contentful/Image` folder.

Reviewer: but once the image is updated by content editor, the uploaded image will go to static directory (default image will still be in src/components/Contentful/Image directory)

Author: clarified

# Building Contentful Components

> While building sites, there often are use cases where the same content is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While building sites, there are often use cases where content is
```

> re-used between pages or possibly it could be a component you want to share with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
re-used between pages, or you might want to share a component with
```

another site. 

A contentful component allows you to specify the default content of a component,
so when it is placed on a site, the data is pre-populated.

> Once a contentful component is placed, the content still be can edited by the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a contentful component is placed, the content can be edited by the
```

> site editor as needed. In addition, if a site editor wants to return back to

Reviewer 2: site editor vs content editor? should it be content editor for consistency's sake?

Author: Addressed

> site editor as needed. In addition, if a site editor wants to return back to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
site editor as needed. In addition, if a site editor wants to revert to the
```

Author: addressed

> site editor as needed. In addition, if a site editor wants to return back to

Author: ```suggestion
content editor as needed. In addition, if a site editor wants to return back to
```

> original content, they can restore the default content at the individual

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
original content, they can do so at the individual
```

component level via a reset button in the context menu.

As a site builder, if you see a component that is often reused

> through the site, say a tout on each article, it can be helpful to build this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
through the site - say a tout on each article - it can be helpful to build this
```

> component as contentful tout and then a site editor can quickly choose this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
component as a contentful tout and then a site editor can quickly choose this
```

component and skip entering the data for it.

## Developing a Contentful Component

> Bodiless provides an API that allows you to extend your component and make it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BodilessJS provides an API that allows you to extend your component and make it
```

> contentful component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a contentful component.
```

* `withDefaultContent` will extend your component to allow default content to be
  passed as a parameter.

* `withResetButton` will add a context menu icon, Reset, to the component that
  allows the site editor to reset data back to the default content. If your
  components consists of a composition of individual components, A site builder
  has the choice of determing the reset behavior.  

>   * It can be for placed on the component itself, and then the reset will revert

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * It can be placed on the component itself, and then the reset will revert
```

all data back to the original.
  * Or it can be placed on each individual components, allowing the site editor
    to reset individual components.

> ### Defining a Contentful Component that consists of single component

Reviewer 2: space after heading

Author: addressed

The following is an example of defining a contentful image:

e.g.
```
type Data = {
  src: string;
  alt: string;
};

// Allows to set default content for image based component.
const asContentfulImage = (nodeContent: Partial<Data>) => (nodeKey: string) => flowRight(
  withDefaultContent({
    [nodeKey]: nodeContent,
  }),
  asEditableImage(nodeKey),
  withResetButton(),
);
```

#### Defining the data of the Contentful Component

Create a ts file to define the data for the component and within match the data

> structure for the component, in this case it is for the image component. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
structure for the component. In this case it is for the image component. 
```

e.g.

The contents of `src/components/Contentful/Image/index1.ts`:
```
import Image from './contentful1.png';

export default {
  src: Image,
  alt: "contentful 1",
};
```

The contentful default image is stored within `src/components/Contentful/Image`
folder. If a site editor uploads an image in place of this image, it will be
stored in the normal static folder.

This contentful component can be used within a page, template or added to FlowContainer to be available to site editor.

### Defining a Contentful Component that consists of composition of multiple components

> The following is example of defining a tout contentful component (which is a composition of set of components: link, rich text editor, image.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example of defining a tout contentful component (which is a composition of set of components: link, rich text editor, image.)
```

The logic is the same except that `withResetButton`'s are added to each component.

> Option 1 with reset on each individual component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Option 1 with reset on each individual component:
```

  ```
  export const withToutResetButtons = withDesign({
    ImageLink: withResetButton({ nodeKey: 'cta$image' }),
    Title: withResetButton({ nodeKey: 'title' }),
    Body: withResetButton({ nodeKey: 'body' }),
    Link: withResetButton({ nodeKey: 'cta' }),
  });

  export const asContentfulTout = (content: object) => flow(
    withToutEditors,
    withToutResetButtons,
    withDefaultContent(content),
  );
  ```

> Option 2 with reset at tout level (not individual). A reset button will still

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Option 2 with reset at tout level (not individual). A reset button will still
```

appear for each individual component, but data is restored for entire component

> and not per sub-component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and not per sub-component:
```

    withResetButton,
    withDefaultContent(content),
  );
  ```

### Defining the data of the Tout Contentful Component

Create a new component in `src/components/Contentful/GivingBackToCommunity` and
within the folder create an `index.ts` that contains the definition. Besides
defining structure we can also combine it with style tokens to define the look
of the component.

```
import { flow } from 'lodash';
import { ToutClean } from '@bodiless/organisms';
import { asContentfulTout } from '../../../Tout';
import { asToutDefaultStyle, asToutHorizontal } from '../../../Tout/token';

// Import data
import title from './title.json';
import body from './body.json';
import cta$image from './image';
import cta from './cta.json';
import cta$text from './cta$text.json';

// Define Data Structure
const toutContent = {
  cta$image,
  title,
  body,
  cta,
  cta$text,
};

// Define component as Contentful tout with data as well as the design tokens.
const GivingBackToCommunity = flow(
  asContentfulTout(toutContent),
  asToutDefaultStyle,
  asToutHorizontal,
)(ToutClean);

export default GivingBackToCommunity;
```

The contents of each of the `.json` is the data if this component was saved in

> the traditional way through the edit interface. A suggested way to create these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the traditional way through the edit interface. To create these
```

> files place the component on the page, fill in the default content and then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
files, place the component on the page, fill in the default content and then
```

> files is place the component on the page, fill in the default content and then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
files place the component on the page, fill in the default content and then
```

copy the `.json` files to this Contentful Component folder and import them in.

> The contents for the `./image` is same as our simple image contentful component in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The contents for the `./image` are the same as our simple image contentful component in
```

the first example that includes data object and the src of the image.

> ### Adding Contentful Components to the FlowContainer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Adding Contentful Components to the Flow Container
```

> Adding your contentful components to the FlowContainer is done in the normal method for the FlowContainer.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding your contentful components to the Flow Container is done in the normal method for the Flow Container.  
```

> We do suggest that you remember to include the same facets used for the original component as part of this variation, so it can easily be found in the same categories as defined in the original component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We suggest that you remember to include the same facets used for the original component as part of this variation, so it can easily be found in the same categories as defined in the original component.
```

# Building Contentful Components

While building sites, there are often use cases where content is
re-used between pages, or you might want to share a component with
another site. 

A contentful component allows you to specify the default content of a component,
so when it is placed on a site, the data is pre-populated.

Once a contentful component is placed, the content can be edited by the

> content editor as needed. In addition, if a site editor wants to revert to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
content editor as needed. In addition, if a content editor wants to revert to the
```

original content, they can do so at the individual
component level via a reset button in the context menu.

As a site builder, if you see a component that is often reused
through the site - say a tout on each article - it can be helpful to build this

> component as a contentful tout and then a site editor can quickly choose this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
component as a contentful tout and then a content editor can quickly choose this
```

component and skip entering the data for it.

## Developing a Contentful Component

BodilessJS provides an API that allows you to extend your component and make it
a contentful component.

* `withDefaultContent` will extend your component to allow default content to be
  passed as a parameter.

* `withResetButton` will add a context menu icon, Reset, to the component that

>   allows the site editor to reset data back to the default content. If your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  allows the content editor to reset data back to the default content. If your
```

  components consists of a composition of individual components, A site builder
  has the choice of determing the reset behavior.  
  * It can be placed on the component itself, and then the reset will revert
all data back to the original.

>   * Or it can be placed on each individual components, allowing the site editor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Or it can be placed on each individual components, allowing the content editor
```

    to reset individual components.

### Defining a Contentful Component that consists of single component

The following is an example of defining a contentful image:

e.g.
```
type Data = {
  src: string;
  alt: string;
};

// Allows to set default content for image based component.
const asContentfulImage = (nodeContent: Partial<Data>) => (nodeKey: string) => flowRight(
  withDefaultContent({
    [nodeKey]: nodeContent,
  }),
  asEditableImage(nodeKey),
  withResetButton(),
);
```

#### Defining the data of the Contentful Component

Create a ts file to define the data for the component and within match the data
structure for the component. In this case it is for the image component. 

e.g.

The contents of `src/components/Contentful/Image/index1.ts`:
```
import Image from './contentful1.png';

export default {
  src: Image,
  alt: "contentful 1",
};
```

The contentful default image is stored within `src/components/Contentful/Image`

> folder. If a site editor uploads an image in place of this image, it will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
folder. If a content editor uploads an image in place of this image, it will be
```

stored in the normal static folder.

> This contentful component can be used within a page, template or added to FlowContainer to be available to site editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This contentful component can be used within a page, template or added to Flow Container to be available to content editor.
```
